Datomic Free Edition License

THE WORK (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE ("LICENSE"). THE WORK IS
PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT AND/OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW. ANY USE OF THE WORK OTHER THAN AS AUTHORIZED
UNDER THIS LICENSE OR COPYRIGHT LAW IS PROHIBITED.

BY EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS TO THE WORK PROVIDED HERE, YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS
OF THIS LICENSE. TO THE EXTENT THIS LICENSE MAY BE CONSIDERED TO BE A CONTRACT, THE LICENSOR
GRANTS YOU THE RIGHTS CONTAINED HERE IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF SUCH TERMS AND
CONDITIONS.

1. Definitions

'Application' means any work that makes use of an interface provided by the Work, but which is
not otherwise based on the Work. Defining a subclass of a class defined by the Work is deemed a
mode of using an interface provided by the Work.

A 'Combined Work' is a work produced by combining or linking an Application with the Work.

'Derivative Work' means a work, whether in Source or Object form, based upon the Work or upon the
Work and other pre-existing works in which the Work may be recast, transformed, or adapted. Any
work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which
the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole,
an original work of authorship is a 'Derivative Work'. For the purposes of this License,
Derivative Works shall not include Combined Works.

'Licensor' means Cognitect, Inc., a Delaware Corporation, which offers
the Work under the terms of this License.

'Original Author' means Cognitect, Inc., a Delaware Corporation.

'Work' means the copyrightable work of authorship offered under the terms of this License, the
Datomic Free Edition binary software.

'You' means an individual or entity exercising rights under this License who has not previously
violated the terms of this License with respect to the Work, or who has received express
permission from the Licensor to exercise rights under this License despite a previous violation.

2. Fair Use Rights

Nothing in this license is intended to reduce, limit, or restrict any
rights arising from fair use, first sale or other limitations on the exclusive rights of the
copyright owner under copyright law or other applicable laws.

3. License Grant

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, Licensor hereby grants
You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual (for the duration of the applicable
copyright) license to exercise the rights in the Work as stated below:

(a) to reproduce the Work, to incorporate the Work into one or more Combined Works, (b) and to
reproduce the Work as incorporated in the Combined Works; (c) to distribute copies of the Work
including as incorporated in Combined Works.

The above rights may be exercised in all media and formats whether now known or hereafter
devised. The above rights include the right to make such modifications as are technically
necessary to exercise the rights in other media and formats, but otherwise you have no rights to
make Derivative Works. All rights not expressly granted by Licensor are hereby reserved.

4. Restrictions

The license granted in Section 3 above is expressly made subject to and limited
by the following restrictions:

 (a) You may distribute the Work only under the terms of this License, and You must include a
copy of, this License with every copy of the Work You distribute. You must keep intact all
notices that refer to this License and to the disclaimer of warranties. When You distribute the
Work You may not impose any technological measures on the Work that restrict the ability of a
recipient of the Work from You to exercise of the rights granted to that recipient under the
terms of the License. This Section 4(a) applies to the Work as incorporated in a Combined Work,
but this does not require the Combined Work apart from the Work itself to be made subject to the
terms of this License. If You create a Combined Work, upon notice from any Licensor You must, to
the extent practicable, remove from the Combined Work any credit as required by Section 4(b), as
requested.

(b) If You distribute the Work (as defined in Section 1 above) or any Combined Works (as defined
in Section 1 above), You must, unless a request has been made pursuant to Section 4(a), keep
intact all copyright notices for the Work and provide, reasonable to the medium or means You are
utilizing: (i) the name of the Original Author (or pseudonym, if applicable) if supplied, and/or
(ii) if the Original Author and/or Licensor designate another party or parties (e.g. a sponsor
institute, publishing entity, journal) for attribution ("Attribution Parties") in Licensor's
copyright notice, terms of service or by other reasonable means, the name of such party or
parties; the title of the Work if supplied; to the extent reasonably practicable, the Uniform
Resource Identifier, if any, that Licensor specifies to be associated with the Work, unless such
URI does not refer to the copyright notice or licensing information for the Work. The credit
required by this Section 4(b) may be implemented in any reasonable manner; provided, however,
that in the case of a Combined Work, at a minimum such credit will appear, if a credit for all
contributing authors of the Combined Work appears, then as part of these credits and in a manner
at least as prominent as the credits for the other contributing authors. For the avoidance of
doubt, You may only use the credit required by this Section for the purpose of attribution in the
manner set out above and, by exercising Your rights under this License, You may not implicitly or
explicitly assert or imply any connection with, sponsorship or endorsement by the Original
Author, Licensor and/or Attribution Parties, as appropriate, of You or Your use of the Work,
without the separate, express prior written permission of the Original Author, Licensor and/or
Attribution Parties.

5. Representations, Warranties and Disclaimer

UNLESS OTHERWISE MUTUALLY AGREED TO BY THE PARTIES IN WRITING, LICENSOR OFFERS THE WORK AS-IS AND
ONLY TO THE EXTENT OF ANY RIGHTS HELD IN THE LICENSED WORK BY THE LICENSOR. THE LICENSOR MAKES NO
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE WORK, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR
OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MARKETABILITY, MERCHANTIBILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR THE ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS,
ACCURACY, OR THE PRESENCE OF ABSENCE OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT DISCOVERABLE. SOME JURISDICTIONS
DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO SUCH EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

6. Limitation on Liability

EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL
LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU ON ANY LEGAL THEORY FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS LICENSE OR
THE USE OF or inability to use THE WORK (including but not limited to damages for loss of
goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages
or losses), EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. Termination

This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically upon any breach by You
of the terms of this License. Individuals or entities who have received Combined Works (as
defined in Section 1 above) from You under this License, however, will not have their licenses
terminated provided such individuals or entities remain in full compliance with those licenses.
Sections 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, and 8 will survive any termination of this License.

Subject to the above terms and conditions, the license granted here is perpetual (for the
duration of the applicable copyright in the Work). Notwithstanding the above, Licensor reserves
the right to release the Work under different license terms or to stop distributing the Work at
any time; provided, however that any such election will not serve to withdraw this License (or
any other license that has been, or is required to be, granted under the terms of this License),
and this License will continue in full force and effect unless terminated as stated above.

8. Miscellaneous

Each time You distribute or publicly digitally perform the Work (as defined in Section 1 above)
or a Combined Work (as defined in Section 1 above), the Licensor offers to the recipient a
license to the Work on the same terms and conditions as the license granted to You under this
License.

If any provision of this License is invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, it shall not
affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the terms of this License, and without
further action by the parties to this agreement, such provision shall be reformed to the minimum
extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable. No term or provision of this
License shall be deemed waived and no breach consented to unless such waiver or consent shall be
in writing and signed by the party to be charged with such waiver or consent.

This License constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the Work
licensed here. There are no understandings, agreements or representations with respect to the
Work not specified here. Licensor shall not be bound by any additional provisions that may appear
in any communication from You. This License may not be modified without the mutual written
agreement of the Licensor and You.
